So, if you remember, metric is, like, uh...
Uh, if you... if you still remember the, um, the college,
mathematics. It's like this square box with, uh, several numbers in it, right-
So, it's basically just a list,
of multiple...
a list of lists.
Right- It has multiple lists inside a list.
Um, yes, you can...
use, um...
Lists item directly.
But it's gonna take a very long time to run your calculations.
There's, like, uh, Python runs on processor, and it's...
It's going to be run, like, one item at a time.
And Python itself is a slow programming language.
Uh, whereas with NumPy,
Basically, it wraps C++,
Uh, with Python, so you'll still write Python, you'll still read Pythons,
Uh, but, um, behind the scene, it's gonna run C++.
That's why it's really fast.
So here's an example. So if you import...
Okay, I'll get to...
one of the...
And I suggest that you do the same. Open up the...
Uh, and as...
course, and go to mini-projects.
And, um, start the workspace there.
Okay, so... and if you create a new Python tree...
Um... nosepoke-
And run this.
Okay, so what this code does is, uh, first it imports NumPy, and it uses NP as in Elias.
So whenever you call NP, it's gonna... whenever you write NP, it's gonna call NumPy.
And it creates a list
And, um, it's going to calculate the mean
Um, and set it to average time variable.
And it calculates the normalized times.
So, if you type in...
times... here's how it's gonna look. Array.
And average time...
It's the average of all the time.
And normalize times...
is it calculates...
Um, every single element with the average time.
This feature is called broadcasting.
So, you just need to type in...
Um, the... the operation wants.
Uh, NPMAX.
Okay, times divided by NPMAX.
So, times has multiple elements.
But NPMAX-
It has...
Only a single value, right-
So you might be wondering, why does a single, uh, why is it that multiple elements can be divided by a single value-
Well, uh, that's what broadcasting does, okay-
So it broadcasts this single value to every single element in this object.
Yes, it's... normal...
When you work with normalized times, what does it mean- Is it useful, for example, for machine learning, or which is the practical example in which you can apply because for example in the past I saw when I was working with
With models that, for example.
To speed up things, for example, for days of the week, I replace them with numbers, for example, you know- Because it is better to use numbers in Taggers, in this case
Instead of
For example, the complete word string like Thursday, Wednesday, Tuesday, you know- So that's why normalized times is which is the practical use of that is for models
Yeah, for machine learning,
Um, but actually, statistics in general,
um... when you have a range of data,
Um, you'd want to...
And if you have a single data out of, like, a range of data,
Uh, you'd want the calc... the calculator, so to speak, to be able to
measure the distance between
Uh, that data across all of the data points that you have.
Normalization, basically,
allows you to set your range to, um, to a certain
specific range. In this case, 0 to 1.
Right- So, if this divides...
All of the values here.
with its maximum value,
16- Yeah.
Therefore, like, the maximum value in this case would be 1.
Right- And since there's no negative value, um,
the range is always going to be 0 to 1.
Great.
It gives the... yeah, so it gives the calculator, like, a way to... and it's especially useful if you're using...
Um, this value, normalized time, with other
so-called features in machine learning.
Right-
Yeah, of course.
Thanks.
Okay. Awesome.
Let's see... uh...